---
layout: post
title: "Let's Adventure! A Journey into Adventure Games (1980-1999)"
date: 2021-07-28 13:01:39 -0400
comments: true
categories: ["Let's Adventure!"]
tags: [series, adventure]
pin: true
image: /images/adventure-banner.jpg
---
When I was growing up in the 80's my favourite games to play were adventure games. I've always found myself going back to this genre, and as I grew up and moved into software development the [ScummVM](https://www.scummvm.org/) project held a certain appeal as it combined two passions for me.

Though I was never very active in the project, I tried to contribute in various ways over the years, finally seeing some success recently with the [Asylum engine being merged](https://www.alexbevi.com/blog/2021/05/19/scummvm-asylum-engine/).

When I stumbled across the [CRPG Addict's blog](https://crpgaddict.blogspot.com/) many years ago I wanted to do something similar, but for adventure games. I've decided to take a run at this as (a very long time ago) I used to write for an online magazine ([Game Over](http://www.game-over.com/content/)) under the pseudonym "Lothian". A [quick Google search](https://www.google.com/search?q=lothian+site:www.game-over.net) will unearth some examples if you're curious ...

It's worth calling out the reviewers at [The Adventure Gamer](https://advgamer.blogspot.com/), who have been blogging about these games in a similar fashion as the CRPG Addict for nearly as long. Both sites go far more in depth than I plan to and focus on documenting their playthroughs. My goal here is to summarize the experience, though the format may change over time depending on how well received this is (and if I can stay focused or not 😅).

## Up Next

{% gist alexbevi/ae81e21c364d6b416306833170fd5bf7 %}

## Guidelines

The [Full Game List](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ucULLS34DjNupizmq8j3jDPg0WgIDsvMJAZ_zEcEMyc/edit?usp=sharing) is 363 titles, however I only plan on playing those that are available in English. Any title that can be played using ScummVM likely will be as this facilitates things like keeping track of play time, taking screenshots, managing save states and more.

I don't plan on playing the games in order either, as this might become a bit tedious. I will be starting with [Mystery House]({% post_url 2021-08-03-mystery-house %}) however as we might as well kick this journey off at the very beginning and see where it takes us from there.

For a number of the older Sierra Online games there are SCI remakes that replaced the text parser with a point-and-click interface. I may review some of these games twice to cover both experiences, however this likely won't be the norm.

## Scoring

My criteria won't be as involved as the [CRPG Addict's GIMLET](https://crpgaddict.blogspot.com/2010/04/ranking-and-rating-crpgs.html), however I want to be consistent with how each game is being measured.

When writing for Game Over we also had a fixed set of criteria (Graphics, Sound, Gameplay, Fun, Multiplayer, Overall). I want to bring something like this over to this series, however in a way that won't penalize older entries in the list too much due to "poorer" graphics/sound.

The scoring we'll be using for this series will focus on the following:

> [15] **Graphics**<br/>
> The overall visual experience of the game can include background art, character models, game interface, cutscenes, inventory design and basically anything that you can see while playing the game.
>
> [10] **Sound**<br/>
> What do you hear? Is there ambient music or background noise? If the game is voiced are the actors giving it their all or [phoning it in](https://grammarist.com/idiom/phone-it-in/)? Are sound effects present and enhancing the experience, or jarring/distracting.
>
> [25] **Plot / Progression**<br/>
> What's the quality of the overarching story in this game? Does it grab your attention and hold it or is it sort of "just there" as a forced reason for you to interact with this virtual world? How does the plot progress, and does everything wrap up at the end? When the game is over do you feel satisfied and want to learn more about this world and its inhabitants?
>
> [15] **Characters / Development**<br/>
> Is the main character interesting and engaging? Are there other characters you interact with and are they fleshed out or just hollow NPCs there to deliver basic instructions? Do the main and supporting characters add depth to the world and gaming experience and how do they grow and evolve as the game progresses?
>
> [15] **Gameplay / Experience**<br/>
> This is a game ... so is it fun to play? The goal is to get from some starting point to some ending point, but was this journey worth your time? Sometimes these games can be a joy to play through and sometimes they're a slog and focus too heavily on "filler" or elements that artificially pad out play time.
>
> [5]  **Replayability**<br/>
> Once the game is complete would you ever find yourself itching to play it again? Was the game fun to play or experience, or offer some variety of gameplay or character selection that could entice you back for repeated playthroughs.
>
> [10] **Impact / Impression**<br/>
> Final thoughts and impressions on this game as a whole. Were you left wanting more, or were you rushing to the end to get it over with.
>
> [5] **Bonus / Surprise**<br/>
> Anything unexpected or notable that's worth calling out?
{: .prompt-info }

Each game will be ranked using the above, with the score represented as a percentage. Note that the first 84 games were originally scored using a different system. If you happen to be curious how this evolved, check out ["Overhauling My Scoring Criteria"]({% post_url 2024-08-22-overhauling-my-scoring-criteria %}) for more information.

## Games List

The games list for this journey is available via [this Google Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ucULLS34DjNupizmq8j3jDPg0WgIDsvMJAZ_zEcEMyc/edit?usp=sharing), and has been taken from [Wikipedia's List of Graphic Adventure Games](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_graphic_adventure_games). This only includes entries from 1980 through 1999.

As I work through the list I'll link the reviews below. You can also find the reviews (in order of publication) under the ["Let's Adventure!"](https://www.alexbevi.com/categories/let-s-adventure/) category page or [sorted by score]({% post_url 2021-08-08-adventure-games-1980-1999-sorted-by-score %}).

<hr>
{%- assign games_finished = 94 -%}
{%- assign games_skipped  = 13  -%}
{%- assign games_total    = 363 -%}
```js
{
  "progress": {
    "finished": {{ games_finished }},
     "skipped": {{ games_skipped }},
       "total": {{ games_total }}
  },
  "journey_completed": "{{ games_finished | plus: games_skipped | times: 100.0 | divided_by: games_total | round: 2 }}%"
}
```
<hr>

> The list below was generated on July 28, 2021 and may have diverged from what is currently listed on Wikipedia
{: .prompt-tip }

1. [Mystery House (On-Line Systems)]({% post_url 2021-08-03-mystery-house %}) - 1980
2. [Wizard and the Princess (On-Line Systems)]({% post_url 2022-12-30-wizard-and-the-princess %}) - 1980
3. [Mission Asteroid (On-Line Systems)]({% post_url 2023-04-26-mission-asteroid %}) - 1980
4. Cranston Manor (On-Line Systems) - 1981
5. [Ulysses and the Golden Fleece (On-Line Systems)]({% post_url 2021-08-08-ulysses-and-the-golden-fleece %}) - 1981
6. [Adventureland (Adventure International)]({% post_url 2023-10-24-adventureland %}) - 1982
7. [Kabul Spy (Sirius Software)]({% post_url 2023-02-07-kabul-spy %}) - 1982
8. Time Zone (On-Line Systems) - 1982
9. [Transylvania (Penguin Software)]({% post_url 2021-08-24-transylvania %}) - 1982
10. [The Dark Crystal (On-Line Systems)]({% post_url 2023-12-08-the-dark-crystal %}) - 1983
11. ~~Star Arthur Legend: Planet Mephius (T&E Soft) - 1983~~ (_Japanese only_)
12. ~~Portopia Renzoku Satsujin Jiken (Yuji Horii, Chunsoft) - 1983~~ (_Japanese only_)
13. [Rendezvous with Rama (Telarium)]({% post_url 2023-10-07-rendezvous-with-rama %}) - 1984
14. Below the Root (Dale Disharoon) - 1984
15. [Dallas Quest (Datasoft)]({% post_url 2024-03-29-the-dallas-quest %}) - 1984
16. ~~Okhotsk ni Kiyu: Hokkaido Rensa Satsujin Jiken (Yuji Horii, Login Software) - 1984~~ (_Japanese only_)
17. [Princess Tomato in the Salad Kingdom (Hudson Soft)]({% post_url 2021-08-15-princess-tomato-in-the-salad-kingdom %}) - 1984
18. ~~Wingman (TamTam) - 1984~~ (_Japanese only_)
19. [King's Quest: Quest for the Crown (Sierra On-Line)]({% post_url 2021-08-06-kings-quest %}) - 1984
20. [The Crimson Crown - Further Adventures in Transylvania (Penguin Software)]({% post_url 2023-02-15-the-crimson-crown-further-adventures-in-transylvania %}) - 1985
21. [Déjà Vu: A Nightmare Comes True (ICOM Simulations)]({% post_url 2023-04-11-deja-vu %}) - 1985
22. Perry Mason: The Case of the Mandarin Murder (Telarium) - 1985
23. [King's Quest II: Romancing the Throne (Sierra On-Line)]({% post_url 2023-04-25-kings-quest-ii %}) - 1985
24. [The Black Cauldron (Sierra On-Line)]({% post_url 2023-11-14-the-black-cauldron %}) - 1986
25. J.B. Harold Murder Club (Riverhillsoft) - 1986
26. [Labyrinth: The Computer Game (Lucasfilm Games)]({% post_url 2021-08-30-labyrinth %}) - 1986
27. [Murder on the Mississippi (Activision)]({% post_url 2023-05-10-murder-on-the-mississippi %}) - 1986
28. [The Scoop (Telarium)]({% post_url 2024-09-13-the-scoop %}) - 1986
29. [Tass Times in Tonetown (Interplay Productions, Brainwave Creations)]({% post_url 2023-12-27-tass-times-in-tonetown %}) - 1986
30. [Uninvited (ICOM Simulations)]({% post_url 2023-08-09-uninvited %}) - 1986
31. [Space Quest: The Sarien Encounter (Sierra On-Line)]({% post_url 2021-08-09-space-quest-the-sarien-encounter %}) - 1986
32. [King's Quest III: To Heir Is Human (Sierra On-Line)]({% post_url 2024-10-25-kings-quest-iii %}) - 1986
33. ~~Suishō no Dragon (Square) - 1986~~ (_Japanese only, though a [fan translation](https://www.romhacking.net/translations/657/) exists_)
34. ~~La Abadía del Crimen (The Abbey of Crime) (Opera Soft) - 1987~~ (_Spanish only_)
35. Mortville Manor (Lankhor) - 1987
36. [Police Quest: In Pursuit of the Death Angel (Sierra On-Line)]({% post_url 2022-03-15-police-quest-1 %}) - 1987
37. [Leisure Suit Larry in the Land of the Lounge Lizards (Sierra On-Line)]({% post_url 2022-12-19-leisure-suit-larry %}) - 1987
38. [Shadowgate (ICOM Simulations)]({% post_url 2021-08-16-shadowgate %}) - 1987
39. The Faery Tale Adventure (MicroIllusions) - 1987
40. ~~Méwilo (Coktel Vision) - 1987~~ (_German, French only_)
41. Maniac Mansion (Lucasfilm Games) - 1987
42. [Space Quest II: Vohaul's Revenge (Sierra On-Line)]({% post_url 2023-02-24-space-quest-2 %}) - 1987
43. Déjà Vu II: Lost in Las Vegas (ICOM Simulations) - 1988
44. Gold Rush! (Sierra On-Line) - 1988
45. [Manhunter: New York (Evryware)]({% post_url 2023-02-18-manhunter-new-york %}) - 1988
46. [Neuromancer (Interplay Productions)]({% post_url 2025-01-22-neuromancer %}) - 1988
47. King's Quest IV: The Perils of Rosella (Sierra On-Line) - 1988
48. [Leisure Suit Larry Goes Looking for Love (in Several Wrong Places) (Sierra On-Line)]({% post_url 2023-02-01-leisure-suit-larry-2 %}) - 1988
49. Zak McKracken and the Alien Mindbenders (Lucasfilm Games) - 1988
50. [Police Quest II: The Vengeance (Sierra On-Line)]({% post_url 2023-02-21-police-quest-2 %}) - 1988
51. [Snatcher (Konami)]({% post_url 2023-06-28-snatcher %}) - 1988
52. B.A.T. (Computer's Dream) - 1989
53. [Emmanuelle (Coktel Vision)]({% post_url 2023-02-08-emmanuelle %}) - 1989
54. Legend of Djel (Coktel Vision) - 1989
55. Future Wars (Delphine Software International) - 1989
56. KULT: The Temple of Flying Saucers (Exxos, ERE informatique) - 1989
57. [Manhunter 2: San Francisco (Evryware)]({% post_url 2023-09-06-manhunter-san-francisco %}) - 1989
58. [Mean Streets (Access Software)]({% post_url 2023-01-19-mean-streets %}) - 1989
59. Transylvania III: Vanquish the Night (Polarware) - 1989
60. [Space Quest III: The Pirates of Pestulon (Sierra On-Line)]({% post_url 2024-02-16-space-quest-iii %}) - 1989
61. Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade (Lucasfilm Games) - 1989
62. Quest for Glory: So You Want to Be a Hero (Sierra On-Line) - 1989
63. The Colonel's Bequest (Sierra On-Line) - 1989
64. [Codename: ICEMAN (Sierra On-Line)]({% post_url 2024-03-20-codename-iceman %}) - 1989
65. Leisure Suit Larry III: Passionate Patti in Pursuit of the Pulsating Pectorals (Sierra On-Line) - 1989
66. [Altered Destiny (Accolade)]({% post_url 2024-06-14-altered-destiny %}) - 1990
67. [Countdown (Access Software)]({% post_url 2023-04-20-countdown %}) - 1990
68. Earthrise: A Guild Investigation (Matt Gruson) - 1990
69. [Geisha (Coktel Vision)]({% post_url 2023-03-23-geisha %}) - 1990
70. [Hugo's House of Horrors (Gray Design Associates)]({% post_url 2022-12-21-hugos-house-of-horrors %}) - 1990
71. Les Manley in: Search for the King (Accolade) - 1990
72. Maupiti Island (Lankhor) - 1990
73. Operation Stealth (Delphine Software International) - 1990
74. Quest for Glory II: Trial by Fire (Sierra On-Line) - 1990
75. [Rise of the Dragon (Dynamix)]({% post_url 2023-02-13-rise-of-the-dragon %}) - 1990
76. Conquests of Camelot: The Search for the Grail (Sierra On-Line) - 1990
77. [Loom (Lucasfilm Games)]({% post_url 2024-02-06-loom %}) - 1990
78. Spellcasting 101: Sorcerers Get All The Girls (Legend Entertainment) - 1990
79. [The Secret of Monkey Island (Lucasfilm Games)]({% post_url 2024-04-30-the-secret-of-monkey-island %}) - 1990
80. King's Quest V: Absence Makes the Heart Go Yonder! (Sierra On-Line) - 1990
81. [The Adventures of Willy Beamish (Dynamix)]({% post_url 2024-02-12-the-adventures-of-willy-beamish %}) - 1991
82. Conquests of the Longbow: The Legend of Robin Hood (Sierra On-Line) - 1991
83. [Cruise for a Corpse (Delphine Software International)]({% post_url 2023-01-12-cruise-for-a-corpse %}) - 1991
84. Fascination (Coktel Vision) - 1991
85. [EcoQuest: The Search for Cetus (Sierra On-Line)]({% post_url 2024-02-28-ecoquest %}) - 1991
86. Elvira II: The Jaws of Cerberus (Horrorsoft) - 1991
87. Gobliiins (Coktel Vision) - 1991
88. Heart of China (Dynamix) - 1991
89. [Hugo II, Whodunit? (Gray Design Associates)]({% post_url 2024-05-10-hugo-ii-whodunit %}) - 1991
90. Les Manley in: Lost in L.A. (Accolade) - 1991
91. Martian Memorandum (Access Software) - 1991
92. [Police Quest III: The Kindred (Sierra On-Line)]({% post_url 2023-12-16-police-quest-iii %}) - 1991
93. Sherlock Holmes: Consulting Detective (ICOM Simulations) - 1991
94. Spellcasting 201: The Sorcerer's Appliance (Legend Entertainment) - 1991
95. Timequest (Legend Entertainment) - 1991
96. [Space Quest IV: Roger Wilco and the Time Rippers (Sierra On-Line)]({% post_url 2024-06-02-space-quest-iv-roger-wilco-and-the-time-rippers %}) - 1991
97. ~~Metal Slader Glory (HAL Laboratory) - 1991~~ (_Japanese only, though a [fan translation](https://www.romhacking.net/translations/3755/) exists_)
98. Leisure Suit Larry 5: Passionate Patti Does a Little Undercover Work (Sierra On-Line) - 1991
99. Monkey Island 2: LeChuck's Revenge (LucasArts) - 1991
100. Amazon: Guardians of Eden (Access Software) - 1992
101. B.A.T. II – The Koshan Conspiracy (Computer's Dream) - 1992
102. [Bargon Attack (Coktel Vision)]({% post_url 2024-08-06-bargon-attack %}) - 1992
103. The Dagger of Amon Ra (Sierra On-Line) - 1992
104. [Dark Seed (Cyberdreams)]({% post_url 2023-11-20-darkseed %}) - 1992
105. Daughter of Serpents (The Scroll) (Eldritch Games) - 1992
106. Dune (Cryo Interactive) - 1992
107. [Eternam (Infogrames)]({% post_url 2023-02-07-eternam %}) - 1992
108. Gobliins 2: The Prince Buffoon (Coktel Vision) - 1992
109. [Hook (Ocean)]({% post_url 2024-10-20-hook %}) - 1992
110. Hugo III, Jungle of Doom! (Gray Design Associates) - 1992
111. Inca (Coktel Vision) - 1992
112. Inspector Gadget: Mission 1 - Global Terror! (Azeroth, Inc.) - 1992
113. KGB (Cryo Interactive) - 1992
114. Leather Goddesses of Phobos 2: Gas Pump Girls Meet the Pulsating Inconvenience from Planet X! (Infocom) - 1992
115. The Legacy: Realm of Terror (Magnetic Scrolls) - 1992
116. Linus Spacehead's Cosmic Crusade/Cosmic Spacehead (Codemasters (NES version), Supersonic Software) - 1992
117. The Lost Files of Sherlock Holmes: The Case of the Serrated Scalpel (Mythos Software, Inc.) - 1992
118. The Palace of Deceit: The Dragon's Plight (Game Syndicate Productions (Cliff Bleszinski)) - 1992
119. [Plan 9 from Outer Space (Gremlin Ireland)]({% post_url 2024-12-22-plan-9-from-outer-space %}) - 1992
120. Putt-Putt Joins the Parade (Humongous Entertainment) - 1992
121. Sherlock Holmes: Consulting Detective Vol. II (ICOM Simulations) - 1992
122. [Ringworld: Revenge of the Patriarch (Tsunami Games)]({% post_url 2022-12-19-ringworld %}) - 1992
123. Spellcasting 301: Spring Break (Legend Entertainment) - 1992
124. Star Trek: 25th Anniversary (Interplay) - 1992
125. [Nightshade (Beam Software)]({% post_url 2022-12-31-nightshade %}) - 1992
126. [Frederik Pohl's Gateway (Legend Entertainment)]({% post_url 2023-11-29-gateway %}) - 1992
127. Indiana Jones and the Fate of Atlantis (LucasArts) - 1992
128. [Lure of the Temptress (Revolution Software)]({% post_url 2024-04-16-lure-of-the-temptress %}) - 1992
129. Quest for Glory III: Wages of War (Sierra On-Line) - 1992
130. [The Legend of Kyrandia: Fables and Fiends (Westwood Studios)]({% post_url 2023-11-24-the-legend-of-kyrandia %}) - 1992
131. King's Quest VI: Heir Today, Gone Tomorrow (Sierra On-Line) - 1992
132. Curse of Enchantia (Core Design) - 1992
133. Rex Nebular and the Cosmic Gender Bender (MicroProse) - 1992
134. The Adventures of Melvin Freebush (Sherwood Forest Games) - 1993
135. [Blue Force (Tsunami Games)]({% post_url 2022-03-31-blue-force %}) - 1993
136. Dare to Dream (Epic MegaGames) - 1993
137. Dracula Unleashed (ICOM Simulations) - 1993
138. EcoQuest 2: Lost Secret of the Rainforest (Sierra On-Line) - 1993
139. Eric the Unready (Legend Entertainment) - 1993
140. Fatty Bear's Birthday Surprise (Humongous Entertainment) - 1993
141. Freddy Pharkas: Frontier Pharmacist (Sierra On-Line) - 1993
142. Gobliins Quest 3 (Coktel Vision) - 1993
143. Inca II: Nations of Immortality (Coktel Vision) - 1993
144. [Innocent Until Caught (Divide By Zero)]({% post_url 2024-01-29-innocent-until-caught %}) - 1993
145. The Legend of Kyrandia: Hand of Fate (Westwood Studios) - 1993
146. [Lost in Time (Coktel Vision)]({% post_url 2023-10-26-lost-in-time %}) - 1993
147. Pepper's Adventures in Time (Sierra On-Line) - 1993
148. Putt-Putt Goes to the Moon (Humongous Entertainment) - 1993
149. [Return of the Phantom (MicroProse)]({% post_url 2024-12-30-return-of-the-phantom %}) - 1993
150. Sherlock Holmes: Consulting Detective Vol. III (ICOM Simulations) - 1993
151. The Journeyman Project (Presto Studios) - 1993
152. [Space Quest V: Roger Wilco – The Next Mutation (Dynamix)]({% post_url 2024-08-21-space-quest-v %}) - 1993
153. ~~Tajemnica Statuetki (Metropolis Software House) - 1993~~ (_Polish only_)
154. Veil of Darkness (Event Horizon Software) - 1993
155. Shadow of the Comet (Infogrames) - 1993
156. The 7th Guest (Trilobyte) - 1993
157. Leisure Suit Larry 6: Shape Up or Slip Out! (Sierra On-Line) - 1993
158. [Maniac Mansion: Day of the Tentacle (LucasArts)]({% post_url 2024-01-20-day-of-the-tentacle %}) - 1993
159. Return to Zork (Infocom) - 1993
160. Myst (Cyan) - 1993
161. Simon the Sorcerer (Adventure Soft) - 1993
162. [Companions of Xanth (Legend Entertainment)]({% post_url 2023-05-23-companions-of-xanth %}) - 1993
163. [Police Quest: Open Season (Sierra On-Line)]({% post_url 2024-04-25-police-quest-open-season %}) - 1993
164. [Sam & Max Hit the Road (LucasArts)]({% post_url 2023-01-23-sam-and-max-hit-the-road %}) - 1993
165. Star Trek: Judgment Rites (Interplay) - 1993
166. Gateway II: Homeworld (Legend Entertainment) - 1993
167. Jack in the Dark (Infogrames) - 1993
168. Quest for Glory: Shadows of Darkness (Sierra On-Line) - 1993
169. [Gabriel Knight: Sins of the Fathers (Sierra On-Line)]({% post_url 2023-06-14-gabriel-knight-sins-of-the-fathers %}) - 1993
170. [Jurassic Park (Sega of America)]({% post_url 2024-07-15-jurassic-park %}) - 1993
171. Alice: An Interactive Museum (Toshiba-EMI) - 1994
172. Are You Afraid of the Dark: The Tale of Orpheo's Curse (Viacom New Media) - 1994
173. The Bizarre Adventures of Woodruff and the Schnibble (Coktel Vision) - 1994
174. BloodNet (MicroProse) - 1994
175. Commander Blood (Cryo Interactive) - 1994
176. [Return to Ringworld (Tsunami Games)]({% post_url 2023-05-31-return-to-ringworld %}) - 1994
177. [DreamWeb (Creative Reality)]({% post_url 2023-05-18-dreamweb %}) - 1994
178. Gadget: Invention, Travel, & Adventure (Synergy, Inc.) - 1994
179. Hell: A Cyberpunk Thriller (Take-Two Interactive Software) - 1994
180. Igor: Objective Uikokahonia (Pendulo Studios) - 1994
181. Inherit the Earth: Quest for the Orb (The Dreamers Guild) - 1994
182. The Journeyman Project Turbo (Presto Studios) - 1994
183. The Legend of Kyrandia: Malcolm's Revenge (Westwood Studios) - 1994
184. Noctropolis (Flashpoint Productions) - 1994
185. Plague of the Moon (Rebelsoft) - 1994
186. Superhero League of Hoboken (Legend Entertainment) - 1994
187. [Under a Killing Moon (Access Software)]({% post_url 2024-09-20-under-a-killing-moon %}) - 1994
188. [Universe (Core Design)]({% post_url 2025-02-02-universe %}) - 1994
189. Dragonsphere (MicroProse) - 1994
190. [Beneath a Steel Sky (Revolution Software)]({% post_url 2023-02-10-beneath-a-steel-sky %}) - 1994
191. Policenauts (Konami) - 1994
192. Death Gate (Legend Entertainment) - 1994
193. King's Quest VII: The Princeless Bride (Sierra On-Line) - 1994
194. Dragon Lore: The Legend Begins (Cryo Interactive) - 1994
195. The Beast Within: A Gabriel Knight Mystery (Sierra On-Line) - 1995
196. The Big Red Adventure (Dynabyte) - 1995
197. Chewy: Esc from F5 (Blue Byte) - 1995
198. Chop Suey (game) (Theresa Duncan) - 1995
199. Cosmology of Kyoto (Softedge) - 1995
200. The Daedalus Encounter (Mechadeus) - 1995
201. The Dark Eye (Inscape) - 1995
202. [Discworld (Teeny Weeny Games/Perfect 10 Productions)]({% post_url 2024-07-09-discworld %}) - 1995
203. Dust: A Tale of the Wired West (Cyberflix) - 1995
204. EVE Burst Error (C's Ware) - 1995
205. [Flight of the Amazon Queen (Interactive Binary Illusions)]({% post_url 2024-06-09-flight-of-the-amazon-queen %}) - 1995
206. Frankenstein: Through the Eyes of the Monster (Amazing Media) - 1995
207. Guilty (Divide By Zero) - 1995
208. Heaven's Dawn (Art 9 Entertainment Inc.) - 1995
209. In the 1st Degree (Adair & Armstrong) - 1995
210. Jewels of the Oracle (Dreamcatcher Interactive) - 1995
211. The Journeyman Project 2: Buried in Time (Presto Studios) - 1995
212. Karma Curse of the 12 Caves (Dreamcatcher Interactive) - 1995
213. Kingdom: The Far Reaches (Virtual Image Productions) - 1995
214. The Orion Conspiracy (Divide By Zero) - 1995
215. Panic in the Park (Imagination Pilots) - 1995
216. Prisoner of Ice (Infogrames) - 1995
217. Qin: Tomb of the Middle Kingdom (Learning Technologies Interactive) - 1995
218. SilverLoad (Millennium Interactive) - 1995
219. Skyborg: Into the Vortex (SkyBox International) - 1995
220. Teen Agent (Metropolis Software House) - 1995
221. Touché: The Adventures of the Fifth Musketeer (Clipper Software) - 1995
222. Wolfsbane (Midnight Games) - 1995
223. Lost Eden (Cryo Interactive) - 1995
224. Nocturnal Illusion (Apricot) - 1995
225. [Full Throttle (LucasArts)]({% post_url 2023-03-10-full-throttle %}) - 1995
226. Aliens: A Comic Book Adventure (Cryo Interactive) - 1995
227. Star Trek: The Next Generation – A Final Unity (Spectrum HoloByte) - 1995
228. [Space Quest 6: The Spinal Frontier (Sierra On-Line)]({% post_url 2024-10-08-space-quest-6-the-spinal-frontier %}) - 1995
229. Roberta Williams' Phantasmagoria (Sierra On-Line) - 1995
230. [Beavis and Butt-Head in Virtual Stupidity (Viacom New Media)]({% post_url 2023-04-16-beavis-and-butthead %}) - 1995
231. Scooby-Doo Mystery (The Illusions Gaming Company) - 1995
232. ~~Clock Tower (Human Entertainment) - 1995~~ (_Japanese only, though a [fan translation exists](https://www.romhacking.net/translations/302/)_)
233. Ripley's Believe It or Not!: The Riddle of Master Lu (Sanctuary Woods) - 1995
234. [I Have No Mouth, and I Must Scream (The Dreamers Guild)]({% post_url 2023-03-30-i-have-no-mouth-and-i-must-scream %}) - 1995
235. [Torin's Passage (Sierra On-Line)]({% post_url 2023-06-07-torins-passage %}) - 1995
236. Mission Critical (Legend Entertainment) - 1995
237. Shivers (Sierra On-Line) - 1995
238. Simon the Sorcerer II: The Lion, the Wizard and the Wardrobe (Adventure Soft) - 1995
239. Total Distortion (Pop Rocket) - 1995
240. Dark Seed II (Destiny Media Technologies) - 1995
241. The Dig (LucasArts) - 1995
242. The 11th Hour (Trilobyte) - 1995
243. Shannara (Legend Entertainment) - 1995
244. Chronomaster (DreamForge Intertainment) - 1995
245. Robot City (Brooklyn Multimedia) - 1995
246. Alien Incident (Housemarque) - 1996
247. Amber: Journeys Beyond (Hue Forest Entertainment) - 1996
248. Blue Ice (Art of Mind Productions) - 1996
249. Creature Crunch (TechToons Ltd.) - 1996
250. [Urban Runner (Coktel Vision)]({% post_url 2023-02-15-urban-runner %}) - 1996
251. The Dame Was Loaded (Beam Software) - 1996
252. Discworld II: Missing Presumed...!? (Perfect Entertainment) - 1996
253. Dragon Lore II: The Heart of the Dragon Man (Cryo Interactive) - 1996
254. Fable (Simbiosis Interactive) - 1996
255. The Gene Machine (Divide By Zero) - 1996
256. Kingdom II: Shadoan (Virtual Image Productions) - 1996
257. Monty Python & the Quest for the Holy Grail (7th Level) - 1996
258. ~~Mutation of J.B. (Invention) - 1996~~ (_Slovak and German only_)
259. Orion Burger (Sanctuary Woods) - 1996
260. UFOs (Artech) - 1996
261. Angel Devoid: Face of the Enemy (Electric Dreams) - 1996
262. Chronicles of the Sword (Synthetic Dimensions) - 1996
263. Bad Mojo (Pulse Entertainment) - 1996
264. [Ripper (Take-Two Interactive)]({% post_url 2023-09-27-ripper %}) - 1996
265. Spycraft: The Great Game (Activision) - 1996
266. Zork Nemesis (Zombie LLC) - 1996
267. [Normality (Gremlin Interactive)]({% post_url 2024-05-27-normality %}) - 1996
268. Kingdom O' Magic (SCi) - 1996
269. The Pandora Directive (Access Software) - 1996
270. Azrael's Tear (Intelligent Games) - 1996
271. [Harvester (DigiFX Interactive)]({% post_url 2024-02-23-harvester %}) - 1996
272. The Lost Files of Sherlock Holmes: The Case of the Rose Tattoo (Mythos Software, Inc.) - 1996
273. Broken Sword: The Shadow of the Templars (Revolution Software) - 1996
274. Timelapse (GTE Interactive Media) - 1996
275. Lighthouse: The Dark Being (Sierra On-Line) - 1996
276. [Ace Ventura (7th Level)]({% post_url 2023-05-16-ace-ventura %}) - 1996
277. Blazing Dragons (The Illusions Gaming Company) - 1996
278. Drowned God: Conspiracy of the Ages (Epic Multimedia Group) - 1996
279. Martian Chronicles, The (Byron Preiss Multimedia Company) - 1995
280. The Neverhood (The Neverhood, Inc.) - 1996
281. The Pink Panther: Passport to Peril (Wanderlust Interactive) - 1996
282. Toonstruck (Burst Studios) - 1996
283. Rama (Dynamix) - 1996
284. Titanic: Adventure Out of Time (Cyberflix) - 1996
285. Leisure Suit Larry: Love for Sail! (Sierra On-Line) - 1996
286. Phantasmagoria: A Puzzle of Flesh (Sierra On-Line) - 1996
287. ~~YU-NO: A girl who chants love at the bound of this world (ELF) - 1996~~ (_Japanese only, though a [2019 remake](https://www.spike-chunsoft.com/games/yu-no/) was localized_)
288. Ark of Time (Trecision) - 1997
289. The City of Lost Children (Psygnosis) - 1997
290. Crusader: Adventure Out of Time (Index+) - 1997
291. Egypt 1156 B.C. (Cryo Interactive Entertainment) - 1997
292. Jack Orlando (TopWare Interactive) - 1997
293. Riana Rouge (Black Dragon Productions) - 1997
294. Sentient (Psygnosis) - 1997
295. The Simpsons: Virtual Springfield (Digital Evolution) - 1997
296. Versailles 1685 (Cryo Interactive) - 1997
297. Voodoo Kid (Infogrames, Eric Sterling Collins, Hubert Chardot) - 1997
298. WuKung: A Legendary Adventure (Abudoe Software) - 1997
299. Realms of the Haunting (Gremlin Interactive) - 1997
300. Obsidian (Rocket Science Games) - 1997
301. Atlantis: The Lost Tales (Cryo Interactive) - 1997
302. The Last Express (Smoking Car Productions) - 1997
303. Shivers II: Harvest of Souls (Sierra On-Line) - 1997
304. Callahan's Crosstime Saloon (Legend Entertainment) - 1997
305. Safecracker (Daydream Software) - 1997
306. [Duckman: The Graphic Adventures of a Private Dick (The Illusions Gaming Company)]({% post_url 2023-03-03-duckman %}) - 1997
307. The Feeble Files (Adventure Soft) - 1997
308. The Journeyman Project: Pegasus Prime (Presto Studios) - 1997
309. The Space Bar (Boffo Games) - 1997
310. Spy Fox in "Dry Cereal" (Humongous Entertainment) - 1997
311. Temüjin: A Supernatural Adventure (SouthPeak Games) - 1997
312. Broken Sword II: The Smoking Mirror (Revolution Software) - 1997
313. The Pink Panther: Hokus Pokus Pink (Wanderlust Interactive) - 1997
314. Dark Earth (Kalisto Entertainment) - 1997
315. Armed & Delirious (Makh-Shevet) - 1997
316. Riven (Cyan) - 1997
317. The Curse of Monkey Island (LucasArts) - 1997
318. Zork: Grand Inquisitor (Activision) - 1997
319. [Blade Runner (Westwood Studios)]({% post_url 2023-10-05-blade-runner %}) - 1997
320. ~~Hollywood Monsters (Pendulo Studios) - 1997~~ (_Spanish only, though a [fan translation](https://shinji-nerd-life.blogspot.com/2012/03/hollywood-monsters-in-english.html) exists_)
321. Ankh: The Tales of Mystery (Artex Software) - 1998
322. Morpheus (Soap Bubble Productions) - 1998
323. Nightlong: Union City Conspiracy (Team17, Trecision) - 1998
324. ZeroZone (R&P Electronic Media) - 1998
325. The Journeyman Project 3: Legacy of Time (Presto Studios) - 1998
326. Black Dahlia (Take-Two Interactive) - 1998
327. Tex Murphy: Overseer (Access Software) - 1998
328. Starship Titanic (The Digital Village) - 1998
329. [Sanitarium (DreamForge Intertainment)]({% post_url 2021-12-22-sanitarium %}) - 1998
330. The X-Files Game (HyperBole Studios) - 1998
331. [Hopkins FBI (MP Entertainment)]({% post_url 2023-01-16-hopkins-fbi %}) - 1998
332. Ring: The Legend of the Nibelungen (Arxel Tribe) - 1998
333. [Grim Fandango (LucasArts)]({% post_url 2022-12-16-grim-fandango %}) - 1998
334. Nancy Drew: Secrets Can Kill (Her Interactive) - 1998
335. John Saul's Blackstone Chronicles: An Adventure in Terror (Legend Entertainment) - 1998
336. Juggernaut (Tonkin House) - 1998
337. King's Quest: Mask of Eternity (Sierra Studios) - 1998
338. Dark Side of the Moon: A Sci-Fi Adventure (SouthPeak Games) - 1998
339. Quest for Glory V: Dragon Fire (Sierra On-Line) - 1998
340. Discworld Noir (Perfect Entertainment, Teeny Weeny Games (PS)) - 1999
341. The Forgotten: It Begins (Ransom Interactive) - 1999
342. Paris 1313 (Dramæra) - 1999
343. Physicus (HEUREKA-Klett Softwareverlag) - 1999
344. Scooby-Doo: Mystery of the Fun Park Phantom (Engineering Animation, Inc.) - 1999
345. [Tony Tough and the Night of Roasted Moths (Nayma Software, Prograph Research S.r.l.)]({% post_url 2023-07-31-tony-tough %}) - 1999
346. Zero Critical (Istvan Pely Productions) - 1999
347. Biosys (JumpStart Solutions Ltd.) - 1999
348. Beavis and Butt-Head Do U. (The Illusions Gaming Company) - 1999
349. Amerzone (Microïds) - 1999
350. Aztec: The Curse in the Heart of the City of Gold (Cryo Interactive) - 1999
351. Traitors Gate (Daydream Software) - 1999
352. Dracula: Resurrection (Index+, Canal+ Multimedia and France Telecom Multimedia) - 1999
353. Faust (Arxel Tribe) - 1999
354. The Silver Case (Grasshopper Manufacture) - 1999
355. Spy Fox 2: "Some Assembly Required" (Humongous Entertainment) - 1999
356. Omikron: The Nomad Soul (Quantic Dream) - 1999
357. Atlantis II (Cryo Interactive) - 1999
358. Freddi Fish 4: The Case of the Hogfish Rustlers of Briny Gulch (Humongous Entertainment) - 1999
359. Nancy Drew: Stay Tuned for Danger (Her Interactive) - 1999
360. The Longest Journey (Funcom) - 1999
361. Gabriel Knight 3: Blood of the Sacred, Blood of the Damned (Sierra On-Line) - 1999
362. Star Trek: Hidden Evil (Presto Studios) - 1999
363. The Crystal Key (Earthlight Productions) - 1999
